# GEI-Across-the-World
Hack the Patriarchy Hackathon Project 
Using ML models and data analysis, we used the GEI (gender equality index) to score countries based on specific factors such as employment, representation in government, education, pay, etc. to determine which specific factor, if improved upon, could narrow the gender inequality gap in each country. 
The project involved using python as a programming langugage as well as random forest regression algorithm (good for linear and non-linear data) and exploratory data analysis to determine which GEI factors would correlate the most to a higher GEI for each of the over 160 countries analyzed. As a result of the analysis, a heat map and pair plot were generated, leading to the conclusion that rimary School Education and Bachelor’s Completion most influence a country’s GEI score. 
These results would be useful for countries who want to decrease gender disparities and therefore, the overall quality of life in their countries. The machine learning model was proven to be 97% accurate. 	Some of the challenges faced when completing the project was that there were some sparse/incomplete datasets because some countries don't publish their data. Because of that, I had to consolidate alot of the data sets for the different groups and choose a smaller number of factors to draw conclusions. In the future, I plan to expand on the project by analyzing data to track company GEI scores so job seekers have a better idea of the level of gender equality in different workplaces. 
